BUILD GEURTS PERFORMANCE PREFECT

For the repository release ZIP, manifest, compatible legacy launcher and checksum,
run scripts/Build-Release.ps1 from the repository root. The raw publish command
below creates a development build; the packaging script is required for updates.

Requires the .NET 10 SDK on Windows x64. No package download is needed: sensor
assemblies are included under Geurts Performance Prefect\Dependencies.

From the source archive's root folder, run:

dotnet publish "Geurts Performance Prefect\GeurtsPerformancePrefect.csproj" -c Release --self-contained false -o output --configfile NuGet.Config

The application is output\GeurtsPerformancePrefect.exe. This is a framework-dependent
build and uses the installed .NET 10 Desktop Runtime.

CHECKS
Run the following in PowerShell and wait for completion:

$report = Join-Path (Get-Location) 'verification.txt'
Start-Process .\output\GeurtsPerformancePrefect.exe -ArgumentList '--self-test', ('"' + $report + '"') -Wait
Get-Content $report

The test also writes overlay-preview.png and settings-preview.png beside the
report, using clearly synthetic fixture data. The thermal-zone check also reads
Windows firmware performance counters and writes thermal-zone-diagnostic.json.
It does not install or load a driver, change real settings, or start cleanup.

For a local hardware report, use --diagnose followed by a quoted absolute JSON
file path. The report stays on your computer and may include device names.

DESIGN
- Overlay monitor selection stores the Windows display device name. Empty means
  the current monitor, preserving drag behavior for existing settings. Explicit
  selections constrain manual placement, reset and Auto-avoid to that monitor's
  physical working area. Missing selections fall back to primary without losing
  the preference. DisplaySettingsChanged refreshes choices and repositions on the
  WPF dispatcher, with the subscription removed on close. Readings height follows
  the target working area and current DPI/scale; native moves settle again after
  a DPI transition. Dragging defers placement until release so automatic mode
  can move freely between monitors. Self-tests exercise both connected monitors,
  startup, tray restore, selected corners and simulated disconnect/reconnect.
  Tray restore completes a native SW_RESTORE when WPF reports Normal before the
  native window leaves its minimised state, so placement reads normal bounds.
  Physical hot-plug, physical dragging and mixed-DPI behavior remain unverified.
- Foreground FPS uses the embedded official PresentMon 2.6.0 x64 console collector.
  Its SHA-256 is checked before launching in a unique temporary folder. Output
  streams through redirected stdout, using v1 metrics and raw QPC timestamps;
  GPU, display and input tracking are disabled. No CSV or ETL files are retained.
  Foreground ownership is polled every 100 ms; PID plus process start time resets
  history. Frames before focus changes are rejected, the busiest swap chain
  supplies a two-second rate, and 1.5 seconds without recent events clears FPS,
  allowing for the real-time trace's delivery buffering.
  Values appear at the configured overlay refresh interval. This is presented
  FPS, not displayed FPS or generated frames; child renderers are not guessed.
  A unique private session preserves other captures. Hiding the row or normal
  shutdown stops that session, waits for the owned helper, and removes its files.
  Access-denied errors request a manual administrator restart without elevation
  or changing group membership. The helper is embedded so older updater file
  allowlists accept this release; its MIT licence uses the existing licence path.
  Self-tests cover CSV parsing, timing, multiple chains, stale activity, focus
  switches, PID reuse, visibility compatibility, rendering, helper integrity,
  access handling and cleanup. Actual elevated game capture needs an elevated
  validation run; this machine's non-elevated diagnostics confirm access denial.
- Downloads cleanup resolves the current FOLDERID_Downloads through
  SHGetKnownFolderPath. AutoWipeDownloadsOnStartup defaults false and persists
  in the existing settings file. Only normal startup after the instance check
  dispatches the optional wipe; self-test, diagnose and updater helper modes
  return first. Settings confirms manual deletion and automatic cleanup opt-in.
  A shared background task rejects concurrent requests and reports partial
  failures. The traversal checks every entry and ancestor for reparse points,
  uses non-recursive directory removal and preserves the Downloads root.
  Tests use unique disposable folders, locked/read-only files, outside sentinel
  files and actual Windows junctions; they never delete real Downloads content.
- HardwareSampler owns and updates LibreHardwareMonitor on one worker thread.
- Only CPU, GPU and motherboard hardware groups are enabled.
- CPU busy time and physical memory also use Windows APIs independently.
- Motherboard selection prefers a named dedicated board sensor. Windows PDH
  Thermal Zone Information Temperature counters provide an ACPI fallback in
  whole Kelvin, converted to Celsius. A single zone is automatic; multiple zones
  require explicit selection, including when another zone is invalid. The overlay
  labels this System temperature (ACPI) because firmware does not identify the
  sensor's physical location. Invalid readings clear the value; unavailable
  providers retry after 30 seconds without retaining old temperatures.
- Physical drive activity uses Windows PDH PhysicalDisk % Idle Time counters:
  activity = 100 - idle time, clamped to 0-100%. English counter paths support
  Windows installations in other languages. The first interval and invalid
  counters show unavailable. This is read/write busy time, not disk space used.
  WMI inventories drives every 10 seconds on the same worker; disk numbers map
  counters to models and volume letters. Preferences use model/serial identity
  (PNP device identity when no serial is available), not disk numbers or letters.
  Each drive has a saved visibility checkbox. Removed drives leave the UI while
  their preferences remain saved. Drive counters do not require PawnIO.
- The overlay scrolls its readings when many drives would exceed screen height.
- CPU, GPU, RAM and each drive have a separate Top app line. Application averages
  default to 60 seconds and are adjustable from 5 to 600 seconds in Settings.
  Ten minutes of monotonic, time-weighted sample history supports immediate
  recalculation. Partial boundary intervals are clipped; repeated UI snapshots
  are ignored. Unavailable intervals are excluded and never shown as idle.
  Executable names group multiple processes (including browser workers).
- CPU uses process CPU-time deltas normalised by processor capacity, with process
  start times protecting against PID reuse. RAM uses physical working sets,
  including shared pages. Protected and very short-lived processes can be absent.
- GPU attribution uses English PDH GPU Engine counters, with DXGI adapter LUIDs
  matched to the selected hardware device. Workers combine on each engine, then
  the busiest engine supplies application usage. Other adapters are excluded;
  ambiguous identical cards remain unavailable instead of being guessed.
- Per-drive attribution uses a private real-time Windows system ETW logger for
  disk read/write initiation and completion events. IRPs retain the issuing app;
  disk numbers map events to physical drive identities. Rankings use bytes/sec,
  while the main drive percentage still measures active time. Administrator
  rights are required. No ETL files are written; other trace sessions are not
  touched. Missing privileges and lost events show an availability explanation.
  Normal shutdown closes the owned reader and session.
- Application self-tests cover time weighting, window boundaries, idle/exit
  decay, missing samples, PID reuse, adapter isolation, native disk decoding and
  issuing-process correlation, settings persistence and immediate UI changes.
  application-diagnostic.json contains local CPU/RAM/GPU attribution and any disk
  availability reason. Non-elevated runs verify disk permission handling; actual
  elevated disk event collection needs an administrator validation run.
- Self-test covers activity calculation, invalid counters, live drive readings,
  settings compatibility, individual drive visibility, persistence, disconnects
  and reconnects with changed disk numbers/letters. The drive-diagnostic.json
  report contains real local drive readings; preview PNGs use synthetic data.
- Immutable snapshots pass to the WPF dispatcher. Polling never overlaps.
- Missing, invalid or stale readings show unavailable, never cached as live.
- Source selection never substitutes a GPU hotspot for core temperature or a
  motherboard VRM temperature for System unless explicitly chosen.
- Settings writes use a temporary file and replacement; invalid files recover.
- On normal first launch, the bundled PawnIO installer runs only when the driver is missing. Windows requests administrator approval. Self-test and diagnosis do not install a driver.
- Remove Core Parking uses powercfg to set the current plan's AC CPMINCORES
  to 100 and reactivate that same plan. Battery values are untouched. Previous
  AC values are saved per plan before applying and can be restored by unticking.
  Administrator changes run only after a user clicks the performance setting.
  The helper rechecks the plan and value, checks exit codes, reads back the result,
  and attempts rollback if activation or verification fails. Tests use a fake
  backend and never change the computer's real power settings.
- The legacy HardwareOverlay settings folder and instance mutex are retained
  to preserve existing preferences and prevent old/new duplicate instances.
- Settings > Application Updates checks stable GitHub releases from
  Geurtsy/Geurts-Performance-Prefect. Installation validates the release SHA-256,
  each manifest file and application version, starts a separate staged helper,
  then saves settings and exits normally. The helper verifies the old process
  identity, waits for it to exit, backs up and replaces only allowed application
  files, and restarts. Interrupted copying restores all touched files. Update
  checks do not run automatically or alter the running application.
- Updater verification covers release selection, download origins, checksums,
  archive paths, package version/file validation, successful replacement,
  injected copy failure, rollback and preservation of unrelated files.
  For an isolated older packaged build, --update-smoke <absolute-report-path>
  exercises download, install and restart against the live public release,
  bypassing hardware, driver installation, real settings and the live overlay.
- Minimise to tray is enabled by default. Main-window and Settings minimising
  share one workflow; tray Restore/double-click and Settings reopen the windows.
  Disable the setting for normal taskbar minimising. Saved coordinates use
  RestoreBounds while minimised. Showing the overlay again never starts a
  second sensor worker. Native WPF lifecycle checks use an isolated settings
  file and disable the hardware worker.
- Auto-avoid uses physical screen rectangles and SetWindowPos without changing
  focus, z-order or size. Working-area bounds preserve taskbar space and support
  monitors with negative origins. Hover picks a safe corner farthest from the
  cursor; if no corner is clear, it does not bounce. Size/DPI/location changes
  re-anchor the selected corner. Settings and both context menus share one
  persistent toggle. Tests inject pointer coordinates, exercise the routed
  MouseEnter event and native window placement, and click the real tray menu item;
  they do not move the user's cursor. Physical hover and mixed-DPI multi-monitor
  interactions have not been manually exercised.

Bundled binaries are unmodified upstream dependencies, pinned and recorded in
Third-party-notices.txt. To update them, use the official upstream distribution
and preserve Windows-specific System.Management/System.IO.Ports assemblies.
