GEURTS PERFORMANCE PREFECT 1.6.0 — WINDOWS x64

Open Geurts Performance Prefect\GeurtsPerformancePrefect.exe, then click Settings.
The existing HardwareOverlay.exe launcher also opens the updated application.

APPLICATION UPDATES
Settings > Application Updates > Check for updates checks the public repository:
  https://github.com/Geurtsy/Geurts-Performance-Prefect
When a newer release is available, Install update and restart downloads and
verifies it, saves preferences, closes the app, installs and reopens Settings.
Preferences stay in the existing HardwareOverlay settings folder. Backups and
update results are under its Updates subfolder. A protected application folder
may require administrator approval. Versions before 1.5.0 need a manual upgrade
once to gain the updater. Normal monitoring continues to work offline.

DOWNLOADS CLEANUP
Settings > Downloads Cleanup > Wipe Downloads now permanently deletes files
and subfolders after you confirm the displayed folder. The Downloads folder
itself is kept. Deleted items do not go to the Recycle Bin.
Auto-wipe Downloads on app startup is off by default. Enable and confirm it to
wipe once per app launch, starting with the next launch, without another prompt.
This includes app restarts after updates or administrator elevation. Disable it
to stop future startup cleanup. The manual button works with auto-wipe off.
The current Windows Downloads location is used. Locked, read-only, inaccessible
and linked items are skipped; Settings shows the result. Run the application
outside Downloads: cleanup refuses folders containing the running app or its
settings, protected Windows folders, drive roots and folder links/junctions.

TOP APPLICATIONS
CPU, GPU, RAM and each physical drive show the application with the highest
average usage over the last 60 seconds. Settings > Top Applications changes the
averaging window from 5 seconds to 10 minutes and saves your preference.
Processes with the same executable name are combined. CPU and GPU show average
usage, RAM shows average physical working set, and drives show average read/write
throughput. While starting, averages use the samples collected so far.
Per-drive application tracking needs Settings > Restart as administrator.
GPU attribution follows your selected graphics card and needs supported counters.

HARD DRIVE USAGE
Settings > Hard Drive Usage lists each detected physical drive, including SSDs.
Tick a drive to show its activity (%) in the overlay; untick it to hide it.
Each choice saves between launches. New drives appear automatically.
Activity is the percentage of time the drive is busy reading or writing.
Drive labels include disk numbers and volume letters; details show the model.
The first sample, disconnected drives and unavailable counters show no reading.
Drive discovery refreshes every 10 seconds. Drive activity uses Windows counters
and does not require the PawnIO driver. The overlay scrolls when needed.

REMOVE CORE PARKING
Settings > Performance > Remove Core Parking applies:
  powercfg /setacvalueindex SCHEME_CURRENT SUB_PROCESSOR CPMINCORES 100
  powercfg /setactive SCHEME_CURRENT

The app captures the active plan's GUID so both commands target the same plan.
Approve the Windows administrator prompt when you turn the setting on or off.
The checkbox reflects the actual AC value on the active plan. Refresh power plan
rechecks it after another app switches plans. Opening the app or Settings does
not change Windows power settings.

Turning the setting off restores the previous AC percentage saved for that
plan. Restoration survives application restarts. If the plan was already at
100% before this app changed it, it shows enabled without offering an invented
restore value. Battery power and other processor settings are unchanged.
Keeping cores unparked may increase power consumption and heat.

OVERLAY
Auto-avoid is available in Settings > Window and in the tray's right-click menu.
Enable it to anchor the overlay to the nearest corner of its current monitor.
When the cursor enters it, the overlay moves to another corner clear of the
pointer and remains anchored there. It uses top left, top right, bottom left,
and bottom right within the monitor's working area, leaving room for the taskbar.
Changes to overlay size/readings keep the selected corner anchored.
The toggle and selected corner save between launches; the toggle defaults off.
When Auto-avoid is on, use the tray for Settings or to disable it before dragging.

Click the — button in the header to minimise the application.
Settings > Window > Minimise to tray is enabled by default. It hides the overlay
and any open Settings window in the notification area. Double-click the tray
icon, or right-click it and choose Restore, to bring them back. The tray's
Settings command also restores the application. Disable Minimise to tray to
use normal taskbar minimising. The preference saves between launches.

The six system readings and each drive have independent switches. Always on top, opacity, size,
refresh interval and sensor choices apply immediately. Drag the application
header to move the overlay. Right-click or use the tray icon for Settings/Exit.
F2 opens Settings. For games, use windowed or borderless mode.

Existing preferences are preserved in:
  %LOCALAPPDATA%\HardwareOverlay\settings.json
This legacy folder is retained for compatibility with the previous release.

TEMPERATURE ACCESS
CPU/motherboard temperatures may need Settings > Restart as administrator and
the PawnIO driver. On first launch, the bundled official PawnIO installer runs when the driver is missing; approve the Windows administrator prompt.
Unsupported sensors show unavailable. If installation is declined or fails, the app tries again next launch.

REQUIREMENTS
Windows x64 with the .NET 10 Desktop Runtime. Dependencies and licences remain
bundled. The app works offline. See Source\Build.txt for build instructions.

VALIDATION
Release build and automated checks cover existing overlay behavior, branding,
native minimising/restoration, tray/taskbar switching, saved minimise preference,
settings-window restoration and window-position preservation,
Auto-avoid menu synchronisation, native placement at all four corners, mouse-enter
handling with simulated pointer coordinates, resizing and saved corner selection,
per-drive activity, saved visibility, reconnection with changed disk numbers/letters,
core-parking apply/restore, saved restoration values, permission failures,
activation failure rollback, changed plans and mismatched readback. Performance
tests use a simulated backend and do not modify the real power plan. Administrator
approval and the real system-changing operation require testing via the setting.
